Q.1 Create dashboard and story telling using tableau

A regional dashboard

Step 1: Download dataset:- https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-Tableau-2020/blob/master/Chapter%2008/Chapter%2008/20Starter.twbx

give sheet name as Region Scorecard

Step 2: Create Calculation now give name Profit Ratio
Step 3: In blank area write this : SUM([Profit])/SUM([Sales]
Step 4: Create another calculation named KPI - Profit Ratio
Step 5: now in blank area on that pop up write this

IF [Profit Ratio] >= [Profit Ratio KPI Target]
THEN "Acceptable"
ELSE "Poor"
END

step 6: Now Drag and drop the Region on Rows and Order Date in columns
step 7: Now Drag and drop the calculation that we have created KPI - Profit Ratio on Color and Shape both 
step 8: Add column for grand total using the Analytics pane and format the grand total with a custom label overall with bold font and light gray shading 
Step 9: Add order date as filter by dragging and dropping and set it to the top 6 by field (order date as min).



step 10: create another sheet named Profit Ratio by Region.


step 11: now use drop down menu on Region to select Geographic Role | Create from... | State.

step 12: Now double click on region and also drag and drop region on text and then drag and drop the profit ratio on text and color

step 13: Rearrange the fields in the Marks Area as First come color profit and then text region and then profit ratio text and then now detail region

step 14: Now apply same filter as we applied in above sheet

step 15: once both created now create new Dashboard named Profit Ratio KPI and arrange them in proper manner

first the map and second the Region Scorecard.



Stories 

this feature allows you to tell story using interactive snapshots of dashboard and view. the snapshots become points in a story. this allows you to construct a guided narrative or even an entire presentation.

Let's consider an example in which story points might be useful. The executive managers are pleased 
with the Regional Scorecard dashboard you developed previously. Now, they want you to make a 
presentation to the board and highlight some specific issues for the South region. With minimal effort, 
you can take your simple scorecard, add a few additional views, and tell an entire story:


step 1: first let's build couple of more views
step 2: create sheet named Profit Ratio KPI by State
step 3: drop KPI - Profit Ratio on Color and then drop sale in details


step 4: create one more sheet named Profit Ratio by Quarter
Step 5: use order date as continuous date value on columns and profit ratio on Rows.
step 6: set the marks type to bar instead of lines
step 7: add reference line for the Profit Ratio KPI Target Parameters value for that you can right click on the Profit Ratio and click on Add reference Line
step 8: Add KPI - Profit Ratio to color also click on color shelf and add border
step 9: now go ahead filter the view to the south region and use the drop-down menu to apply that filter  to the Profit Ratio KPI by State view as well:

Step 10: now create dashboard and add both of them which we recently created one after another.

step 11: put all the filter and color thing in the last line of the dashboard right side

step 12: create a new story by selecting story | new story from the menu

step 13: Give the story title as South Region Analysis

step 14: Add the Regional Scorecard dashboard as the first story point and select the south region on the map. give the story point the following text : The South Region has not Performed well the last 6 months:
step 15: click the new blank point button and add the profit ratio analysis dashboard to the point
step 16: give this story point the title Only one state has met the 15% Target overall.
step 17: Right click Virginia on the map and select Annotate| Mark..keep the state and profit ratio as part of the annotations
step 18: Click the Duplicate button to copy the current story point. Give this new story point a caption 
of 3 states would meet a goal of 10%. Set Profit Ratio KPI Target to 10.00% and update the 
point.

step 19: Click the Duplicate button again and give the newly created point a caption of Certain states 
have performed well historically.
step 20: Right-click the annotation for Virginia, select Remove to delete it, and then add a similar 
annotation for Louisiana. Then, click Louisiana to select that state

step 21: Make sure to click the Update button to capture the state of the dashboard.


here we create this story point highlights quarterly results for single state.

