Q.1 Crating Geospatial featuure maps in tableau using Geospatial Data.

step 1: download  the dataset from here : https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Learning-Tableau-2020/blob/master/Chapter%2009/Real%20Estate.xlsx
step 2: select that downloaded file in tableau from the menu icon and clicking on more

step 3: now to use Map just drag and drop the logitude in the column and latitude in rows from the sidebar
step 4: now from main menu go to map and select background Maps and then choose Dark Map from their we can configure map using

step 5: Now again go to map and map layers now you can see pop-up 

step 6: The Map Layers pane gives you options for selecting a background, setting washout, selecting 
features to display, and setting a Data Layer. 

step 7: You may also use the menu options Map | Background Maps | Manage Maps to change which map 
service is used, allowing you to specify your own WMS server, a third party, or to use Mapbox maps. 


##Using geospatial data
We've seen that with any data source, Tableau supplies Latitude (generated) and Longitude 
(generated) fields based on any fields it matches with its internal geographic database

country, state, zip code, MSA, and congressional district are contained in Tableau's internal 
geography. As Tableau continues to add geographic capabilities, you'll want to consult the 
documentation to determine specifics on what the internal database contains. 
However, you can also leverage specific geospatial data in your visualizations. We'll consider ways to 
use data that enable geospatial visualizations, including the following: 
Including Latitude and Longitude as values in your data. 
Importing a .csv file containing definitions of Latitude and Longitude into Tableau's 
database. 
Leveraging Tableau's ability to connect to various spatial files or databases that natively 
support spatial objects.

###Including latitude and longitude in your data

Including latitude and longitude in your data gives you a lot of flexibility in your visualizations (and 
calculations). For example, while Tableau has built-in geocoding for countries, states, and zip codes, it 
does not provide geocoding at an address level. Supplying latitude or longitude in your data gives you 
the ability to precisely position marks on the map. 

A map of houses for sale, sized by price 
Here, each individual house could be mapped with a precise location and sized according to price. In 
order to help the viewer visually, the Streets background has been applied. 
If you are not able to add the fields directly to your data source, you might consider using crossdatabase joins or data blending. Another alternative is to import latitude and longitude definitions 
directly into Tableau. We'll consider this option next. 
Importing definitions into Tableau's geographic database
In order to import from the menu, select Map | Geocoding | Import Custom Geocoding.... The import 
dialog contains a link to documentation describing the option in further detail: 
The Import Custom Geocoding dialog box By importing a set of definitions, you can 
either: 
Add new geographic types 


Extend Tableau's built-in geographic types 
Latitude and longitude define a single point. At times, you'll need to render shapes and lines with 
more geospatial complexity. For that, you'll want to consider some of the geospatial functions and 
spatial object support. 
Leveraging spatial objects
Spatial objects define geographic areas that can be as simple as a point and as complex as multi-sided 
polygons. This allows you to render everything from custom trade areas to rivers, roads, and historic 
boundaries of counties and countries. Spatial objects can be stored in spatial files and are supported 
by some relational databases as well. 
Tableau supports numerous spatial file formats, such as ESRI , MapInfo ,KML , GeoJSON , and 
TopoJSON 

Additionally, you may connect directly to ESRI databases as well as relational databases with 
geospatial support, such as ESRI or SQL Server. If you create an extract, the spatial objects will be 
included in the extract. 

Many applications, such as Alteryx , Google Earth , and ArcGIS , can be used to generate 
spatial files. Spatial files are also readily available for download from numerous organizations. This 
gives you a lot of flexibility when it comes to geospatial analysis. 
Here, for example, is a map of US railroads: 
Map of US railroads 

To replicate this example, download the shapefile from the United States' Census Bureau here: 
https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/tiger-lineshapefile-2015-nation-u-s-rails-national-shapefile. 
